Alright, so how did you get on with the
challenge that I introduced in the
last video? Did you manage to complete it?
If your program behaves correctly, then
well done. You may have written your code
differently to the solution you'll see in
this video, but as long as it works, then
that's fine. I'm gonna start out by
creating a new Python file here. I'm
gonna call this one summarychallenge.
So I'm gonna start with a few lines that
print the menu, print parenthesis please
choose your option from the list below :
there. We want a double quote and right
parenthesis. Alright, so we'll go with
five options; print parentheses double
quotes 1 colon backslash t to indent the
code, Learn Python, closing off the line
there. Print parentheses again, double
quotes 2 : backslash t Learn Java closing
off the line, print parentheses double
quotes 3 colon backslash t go swimming,
closing off the line again. I'm sure, by now,
you know you need to do a double quote
and a parenthesis there, as I'm doing.
Next we're gonna do a 4 in double
quotes, colon backslash t Have dinner,
and then on line six, print parentheses
double quotes 5 colon backslash t Go to
bed. Then the last option was the exit,
print parentheses double quotes 0 colon
backslash t Exit. Okay. So I've used a tab
to separate the option numbers from the
descriptions. The menu might look better
with just a single space, but I want you
to see escape characters used in strings.
We've only seen tabs used in strings in
one video - the escape character in the
last section. It's not something you'll
probably do very often, which means it's
something that you might forget about.
Alright, so the next part of the
challenge was to keep looping. So we need to
introduce a while loop to do that. So I'm
gonna do a while true, start that on line 9
Next thing we need to do is to get
the user's input, or the user's choice, so
we're going to type choice is equal
to input parentheses. Now our loop is
going to keep looping around forever so
we need to
break out of it somehow, and we can do
that by checking to see if they've typed
zero. So I'm going to do that on line 12.
If choice is equal to, two equal signs,
zero and double quotes : break.
Alright. So next we need to check for a valid
option. You may have used a series of
elif blocks here, but a more concise way
is to use in. So I'm going to tab
back here and go to the elif here,
matching up with the if we've got on line 12.
So elif choice in, and in double quotes,
1 2 3 4 5, closing off the double quote
and colon, print parentheses double
quotes You chose, left and right curly
braces, double quote dot format and
choice in parentheses. For this
particular program, using in results in
much simpler code than a series of
elifs, and if you're not sure how that
works, review the in and not in video, earlier
in this section. Alright, so that's the
first part of the challenge completed.
Run the program and test it with various
inputs. Entering 1 to 5 should print the
message - anything else except a 0 will be
ignored. When 0 is entered, the program
terminates. As I said, you may have done
things a little bit differently from
what you're seeing here. The main thing is
that you get the same output and the same
results. So basically, if your solution
behaves correctly, then well done, you've
completed the challenge. Alright, so
moving on. In the next video, I'm going to
go over my solution to the optional
extra part of the challenge.
See you in the next video.